Raised by both parents, Jakar had a good start to life. His father a structural engineer, and his mother a mechanical engineer both encouraged Jakar to follow in their footsteps. He did so with pride, completing his university degree to much applause from his parents. Shortly after graduation he was approached by HELIOS for a mechanical Engineering position. While Jakar was at first hesitant, his parents gentle reminder that not every student is lucky enough to get a job from graduation pushed him to make the steps towards the private sector; rather than the public one.  It was during this time that Jakar met Bruce, the Chief Engineer at HELIOS to which he would receive orders from, and report to on the progress of fixing and improving the mechs found in his hangar. 

After around a year into his job, Jakar had made himself comfortable around his fellow engineers and mechanics, making a simple life for himself at HELIOS. For a short while, Jakar believed he had it easy, that was until the base he was stationed at got attacked during an extended series of contracts in Austria. An ensuing skirmish around the base led to all available pilots too occupied fighting to defend the mechanical wing of the base. With his commanding officer Bruce trying to provide AA to let some escape, and his friends and colleagues being attacked, many running for their lives and quite a few dying in the process, Jakar jumped into a half completed mech. Despite no official pilot training, he had been around these machines well enough to keep them going. He held off a few intruders until the main fighting force of HELIOS arrived to exfil the remaining staff. Once the dust settled, Jakar hopped out his mech. A healthy bonus and a long string of therapy sessions soon followed. A year later, after having just settled back into the quiet life and back into his normal duties, another word came in. There was no back up for a team who'd just gone down in the UAE. Bruce, seeing the efforts of Jakar to defend his colleagues only just a year prior, sent Jakar off the books to go help the team. Before Jakar could even question the legality or ethics of this decision he was pushed into the same old mech he piloted in that maelstrom of fire and sent off quickly. It was here his simple life as an engineer, making his parents proud, would end. 

## Trivia

- His Callsign "Archimedes" comes from the ribbing he first got when he was stationed in the repairs hangar. Jakar could not stop talking about the history of mechanical engineering, as such he was given the nickname "Archimedes". A jab towards his proclivity to gush about ancient historical engineers.

- Jakar named his mech "Da Vinci" after a close friend in the hangar. An Italian named Enzo, who in private confessed he too was inspired by the artists and engineers of the past, primarily Leonardo Da Vinci. He passed away in the attack on the hangar back in 2102.

- His favourite flower are Bluebells, of which he keeps a small plant pot containing them in his cockpit.

- He is the only member of his team who actively participates in the free therapy provided by HELIOS.